I mentioned at the outset of this CHP
history of t-series I was gonna stick to
the history as it related to China
how T evolved from bitter and ancient to
into modern beverages like today's boba
Jean drew nigh cha or any of these
refreshing iced white tea beverages
flavored with peach strawberry blueberry
and pomegranates is a story ollie fer
someone else to tell as the one here
within the CHP organization tasked with
deciding which content will ultimately
be presented my aim was to keep this
overview as narrow as possible as it
related to you know but the CHP is all
about
once I started wandering into Korea
Japan and elsewhere this humble little
ten part effort would have ballooned
into a whole other podcast shonrock
there is the ancient legend of tea's
discovery by Shan dong and his bunch o
Jing the classic of herbal medicine
among other names which has survived to
this day who knows if shun dong wrote it
the whole work didn't get compiled until
the eastern Han but traditionally in
folk legend shun Nong is where it all
began for tea in the previous episodes I
introduced many of the key people
Remembered in the history of tea for
various reasons we went back as far as
59 BCE with Wong ball and that ancient
contract that itemised tea as well as
other info that revealed an existing tea
market in the time of Emperor Xuan of
the Western Han and around this time
lived wool dijon we looked at his story
and how he brought 70 bushes to hmong
ding Xiang and su chuan around 53 BCE
and began the organized cultivation of
tea in China we saw in part one how in
China's case evidence of teas
development from bitter vegetable -
pleasure drink was found in a number of
historical documents that showed how far
tea had advanced over the history
timeline he
these surviving works are like pieces of
a jigsaw puzzle that showed the
progression of how much closer the
Chinese were getting over the centuries
to achieving a full understanding of
teas secrets the shawl went yet so as I
mentioned in part one showed us the
character Ming forty and explained in
the Han Dynasty what tea was literature
that mentioned tea began to become more
plentiful but like anything from
thousands of years ago unless someone
carved it in stone very little survives
all we really have up until the time of
the Tang Dynasty are just bits and
pieces the Aria and the Guang yeah we
looked at those two works in Episode one
we also introduced the people in China
rather unknown who get credited for
being the first to make something of tea
these were the Bashu the kingdom of Shu
was located mostly in Sichuan province
today wherever you are in Chengdu you
can see references to Shu all over the
place
even the local Chengdu --tz-- hai joint
that I frequent here in LA is called Shu
Fung urine we closed part Mon with the
introduction of the world of Gong cha or
tribute tea if the tea was good enough
for the Emperor you can rest assured
that it had reached a stage of
refinement and quality that no one would
turned their nose up there we saw how
once the sway and the tongue came and
went
tea had its first moment on the national
stage that really was the dividing line
as far as Chinese tea history is
concerned there was everything before lu
lu and the tongue and then everything
that followed the tang dynasty brought
tea culture to great heights unseen
before in china successive dynasties
would build on the achievements in the
tongue and add their particular touch
later on but it was in the tongue where
tea and tea culture turned a corner we
saw how the first ones outside china to
get hooked on tea were those closest in
proximity to china from this period and
the tongue en cha or border tea began to
be traded and for a two-way trade to
exist you needed something to bar
four and a route how to get there I gave
a very brief overview of the Chama Kudo
the ancient tea horse road that he could
still see bits and pieces of today I
showed how Buddhism cuddled up nice and
close with tea from the earliest times
in the tongue
it was the Buddhist monasteries who
would cultivate some of the most prized
teas and in the case of Chan or Zen
Buddhism tea would actually become part
and parcel of the liturgy I mentioned a
couple times Japan's contribution to tea
was so great and far-reaching that I
decided not to wait too deep into those
waters we looked at the monks site Chou
and Koo Chi who did so much to bring
camellia sinensis to the Land of the
Rising Sun what he inspired in
literature
paintings ceramics calligraphy and
social customs is a whole mass of ten
part series in and of itself although I
didn't delve too deep into this aspect
of tea I hope at least I gave you an
appreciation of how tea like wine served
as a muse to inspire so many great minds
to produce works of art from their paint
brush and ink brushes I read you Luke
tomes famous poem Chuang sure seven
balls of tea that was one of countless
tens of thousands of these so-called tea
poems produced between the tongue and
the ching in episodes 456 I traced the
history of tea in the post Tong world in
the Tong era tea for the first time
assumed the role in Chinese society is a
link between art and life we looked at
GN where Shing where and chained by as a
few of the most famous examples of cha
Joo we looked at tea in the song and saw
how t was popular in a powdered form and
how they would denn-shah or whisk the
tea and at the low and the highborn
would bow cha with each other in these
tea contests and and even more so than
in the tongue aesthetics and tea joined
up in the song and gave birth to all
of ceramic and literary treasures we
also looked at the main char n of his
day it's hi Jean who among a long list
of achievements gave us the cha Lu the
record of tea she took Lulu's Manuel up
to Song Dynasty standards and left his
mark as a great contributor to the many
tea treatises of Imperial Chinese
history the song was another great
dynasty of poets one of the most revered
men of his age was su sure su Dongpo he
was among many other things a great tea
expert of his day he left a lot of tea
inspired poems that were recited
throughout the ages and yes he gave us
don Paul row for which I am forever
thankful though my coronary system I
take issue with that in the Ming loose
tea as we know it in our day and age
became the standard throughout the land
by executive order no less from the
founding Emperor two year in Jang the
home Wu Emperor we looked at the Ming
contribution to a long line of tea
classics the Chaput was written by the
Hong Luo emperors a political son Jude
Shen this was followed by another work
of the same name the shabu-shabu means
tea manual or tea guidebook we saw how
the Ming let forth a gusher of new tea
culture Jing DeJohn became the most
renowned supplier of Imperial and
masquerade ceramics the world had ever
seen up to that time they were
practically an arm of the Imperial
government in Beijing Ying where became
all the rage during the Ming we looked
at all those sucia purple clay items and
I mentioned how for poo iron long tea
all the experts swear by this kind of
itching where next time you were in Hong
Kong check out part of Vitus oi founder
KS Lowe's east Shing where collection
located in Hong Kong Park at the Museum
of T where chaos low was one of the
greatest collectors of these treasures
and did a lot to bring back
and popularize seeing teapots in the
20th century then we closed off our
history of tea with the arrival of the
foreigners into China's perfect little
world the Portuguese the Dutch the
British the French and after 1783 the
Americans everyone came to China to buy
tea maybe the market just got too big
for China's restrictive export system in
the late 1840s and early 1850s the whole
kit and caboodle of how to plant tea
grow it pick it process it and shape it
into all kinds of different ways
everything
the hardware and the software it was
serve tisha Slee carried out of China
loaded on a ship and off to India
everything went and China's tea industry
took a big hit because of that by the
time of the Roaring Twenties there was
almost no Chinese presence and Western
international tea markets by then over a
million Indian workers were mass
producing the stuff in the mountains in
hills of northeastern India but tea is
roaring back and those who like to buy
from small-time operations offering the
absolute topmost quality can do this
online this is the way to go and if
you're fortunate enough to have access
to a tea shop in your neighborhood you
can get all kinds of fresh stuff and a
nice variety of China and India teas the
one down the street in the village here
in Clermont also has loose tea from
Vietnam in the Middle East I hope I
piqued your curiosity a little regarding
tea there are a whole lot of tea
aficionados out there who have written
books uploaded videos given lectures and
tea ceremony demonstrations if you want
to dive headfirst into the world of tea
there are a cavalcade of experts and
cha-da sure's out there to show you the
ropes and again as I said when you start
to test out your first artisan loose
leaf teas there are plenty of online
shops carrying everything and everything
you might ever dream of having as part
of your own personal equipage you know I
haven't even spoken about poo
I received no small amount of concerned
emails from listeners asking when I was
gonna get around to talking about pool
are who are is a place it's now a
prefectural level city a DG shirt
located in southern Yunnan Province it's
about two hours north of XI Shuang bana
and five hours south of couldn't make
pars name don't ask me why was changed
to assume all right after liberation but
ever since 2007 after party had become
such a sensation they decided to change
it back to its original name the market
and pool RT promptly crashed
soon afterwards but we'll get to that
what's interesting about pou are the
city is that it borders three countries
Laos Vietnam and Burma the Shan State of
Burma so you know which famous triangle
pool are is located in they get about 59
inches of rain a year there so you know
that slice of your nun is wet with lots
of sunshine and carpeted with mountains
and valleys perfect tea growing
conditions
no wonder the epicenter of all the
indigenous tea trees in the world is
located in this province the tea that
comes out of this region of southern
Yunnan is so special that a category had
to be created just for it in Cantonese
they call this bowl a I've met people
who are simply reverent about this tea
all teas are unique in their own ways
but who are how can I explain the way
this tea stands out the way it is
processed and also the terroir and
special handling involved in the
processing make party so special I
mentioned in part 5 of these series
about ease Shing where pour is the tea
that goes hand in hand with that
tea we're from Jiangsu why are some tea
people so in love with who are I have to
say among Chinese teas it has a taste
all its own it's very distinct and has
been described as earthy musty and very
natural
tasting mmm doesn't sound terribly
appealing in a beverage you could make
green tea almost everywhere in southern
China same with almost any tea I guess
but not poo our no not unless it's
Yunnan big leaf tea grown processed
sun-dried in the time-worn fashion of
the locals and packed in this region of
Southern Union can you call it poo are
there's no such thing as Fujian who are
hangzhou who are another unique thing
about poo RT is that like red wine this
tea is considered better the older it
gets
there's no rush to pick these leaves
before the Ching Ming holiday and
expedite the finished product to market
this isn't necessarily true in all cases
of course but an aged cake of par is
considered something special that you
might enjoy ten twenty or thirty years
from now or may be passed down to the
next generation or is it sometimes
happens sell at auction and because some
of this tea is so expensive there's a
big market and fakes it's like this for
all the top price teas quite a brisk
business is done and counterfeit Shan
Zhai tea another interesting thing about
poo RT is that although you can buy and
loosely form its most characteristic
form of packaging are these round discs
like tea cakes yeah they still do it
that way
they pack seven of these discs and a
bamboo wrapper of sorts and these became
known as cheats Abita or seven Suns tea
cake you can always see those characters
on the wrapper of most of these poo are
disc shaped tea cakes you need a chart
though and a little extra effort to
prepare each serving remember in part
two we discussed the Chao mangu dal the
ancient tea horse rode they'd load up on
these tea bricks in Yunnan and Sichuan
and to the west and to the north it
would be transported the minority ethnic
people down there loaded up their wagons
with the tea picked from these ancient
trees it wasn't poo our tea yet it was
just dried and compressed he leaves port
he as we know it wouldn't make its
entree until the Ming Dynasty she Shuang
Bona is a city south of Poole are people
in the all-american city of Austin and
the great state of Texas know this as
one of their sister cities
I guess people like to call that area of
Yunnan the center of the epicenter as
far as where pool our tea was first
grown and made it's not a terribly
Chinese sounding names she's want banana
that comes from the Thai language the
cha Magua the tea horse rode began in
the south part of XI Shuang banana and a
place called evil not to be confused
with a wool in central Jojen province
center of the merchandise wholesale
trade in China all the tea grown by
these ethnic minority people and the
nooks and crannies of the mountains
around there would be taken to the
Central Market of poor city there in poo
our city the tea farmers and merchants
would gather to start the ball rolling
as far as getting the product out to the
markets in Tibet Mongolia and elsewhere
the tea makers of the Wu Liang I la and
Tashia mountains all make a similar
product but each brand of poo R has its
particular to the N or something about
it that experts are most enamored by
speaking of the most general terms
possible there are two kinds of party
Chung poo our and show who are Chung
means raw show means ripe ripe who RT is
an invention that only came in the 1970s
which shows even into our modern age tea
hadn't quite yet revealed all its
secrets I mentioned that the longer you
aged the party and storage the better
tasting and more mellow it becomes and
usually more expensive to with ripe
party the green raw poo ours aging
process is expedited by a special
process that Spears you the 30 year wait
for that raw who are to reach its
optimum taste this special process
is called war doing war means to wet or
to moisten day means a heap this is a
process where the raw leaves are fooled
into believing they are being aged
slowly but in fact all happens rather
quickly and what you ultimately get is a
party that is fully oxidized
microbiologically fermented and tasting
quite old and venerable already so you
could obtain partitas and already
ripened ready to drink show who are or
you can enjoy the raw or green pool our
which has other characteristics to it
which can be no less enjoyable there's
so many interesting things about poo RT
where it's made and who's making it is
also quite fascinating as I mentioned
it's mostly all made by these ethnic
minority people down in yunnan in
chinese they call this a cha or a black
tea it has the darkest liquor of most
all teas for ripe and raw who are young
par and show up who are they both start
from the same leaf the first thing done
is to kill those dang enzymes that
immediately start working on the pluck
the leaf the minute it hits the Chong's
tea basket
that's the shocking part remember sha
means to kill and ching means green big
walks are used to pan-fry the leaves and
immediately deactivate the enzymes next
step is to roll those leaves the
huronian part this step is where the
great masters who make all this
artisanal handmade tea do that thing
they do pounding twisting and doing
these other secret techniques that only
they know about this adds their little
touch to their villages brand of poo are
no ovens or mechanical shortcuts are
involved in making real pour real party
has to be sun dried after rolling under
that yunnan sun it must go for further
fermentation of the leaves to take place
once this back-end processing is all
taken care of the end result is raw pull
our maja Mao that's a same character ma
was
the great chairman but here it means
something else semi-finished I presume
guessing from the multitude of different
meanings for the character mall Mao huh
well this is sort of like the stem cell
it could go either way depending on what
you wish to do with it
this mouch ah is very similar looking to
green tea if you want to make Xiang poo
our raw poo are from this point you
steam them ouch ah mold it and wrap it
up into any number of package forms once
this is done the product is called semi
fermented at this point the remainder of
the fermentation will occur in the
package over time providing you keep the
cake of who are stored properly I'm not
going to get into the chemical details
but while you have it stored away in a
cool dark place there's a whole
microbiology lesson going on inside that
poo RT but if you want the ripe poo are
the stuff that tastes like it's been
kept in a safe place for a nice stint
more has to be done to get it ready for
the walk to a process this secret
process was discovered at the could mean
cha Chand the couldn't being tea factory
back when bell-bottoms were just
beginning to go out of style this
process expedites the fermentation of
the natural molds and the tea and turns
the tea leaves black a drying process
follows where yeast and mold on the
leaves continues to ferment mold
actually appears in the leaf you really
have to get it right
making ripe party otherwise you could
end up with some pretty foul smelling
and rancid tasting stuff after the
fermented and post fermented leaves are
completely dried workers will sift
through the whole pile and take out the
good full unbroken leaves and put those
aside that's the Primo stuff from that
point on it's two more steps sterilize
everything and either sell it as is
loose leaf product or the final step is
to compress it into any number of
traditional shapes the round bing cha
discs are
it's most common as well as the bird's
nest shape watch ah most of the party
I've seen is wrapped in a kind of paper
that lists all the vital info of where
it came from the weight and when it was
packed and all kinds of info if the T is
one of those high value ones that have
been sold auctioned or passed on the
provenance is also shown on the wrapper
you know there's a system they have
collectors in China Hong Kong Taiwan and
Southeast Asia
cause the prices of party to skyrocket
in the lead-up to the Beijing Olympics
when money was loose and there was a lot
of it in the system prices for the best
pool ours were out of sight but in 2008
the market crashed and the good folks
down in Yunnan who were riding the crest
of that phu our wave had to take a few
gulps of XI Bay Fung that northwest wind
was an old saying Hershey Bay Fung so
wretched and unpleasant of the wind's
coming off the Gobi and across Xin Jiang
got to say you really got it rough one
might say they're drinking the northwest
winds anyway who our team might have a
bit of an acquired taste you never know
you may like it on the first try I just
wanted to introduce pou Artie to you
give a very light treatment on what it's
all about and to let you know real tea
people who love Chinese tea
wake up too and go to sleep every night
with this stuff you'll see many online
tea stores only deal in poo are and
nothing else the mass of poo RT comes
from bushes planted in great tea gardens
but some come from trees that are
relatively young that is one to two
hundred years old the more expensive and
coveted poo artis come from the older
tea trees many of them growing wild in
the mountains of southern new none the
trees only grow on the mountain sides
the older the tree the more intense the
taste when buying party some people only
want the product that came from a cool
shoe or an ancient tree who are like
white green and who long tea has become
popular in the world
of bow champion or health products who
are and white tees the two diametric
opposite of the T spectrum are these
days touted as particularly healthy to
drink party has vitamins b1 b2 C and E
potassium phosphorus calcium magnesium
aluminum lysine arginine histidine
cysteine and trace elements of zinc
sodium nickel iron beryllium sulfur and
fluorides practitioners of TCM have said
puh RT is also a digestive aid and is
good at breaking down fats and lowers
LDL bad cholesterol it is shown to be
effective in the treatment of
arteriosclerosis colds bleeding and
hepatitis and the high level of vitamin
C can be rapidly taken in by the body
besides lowering fat and cholesterol poo
RT is also touted as effective in
treating and preventing cancer I could
only say if you never tried it before
give it a shot
I've only given the briefest of
thumbnail overviews of what pou RT is
all about next episode we'll look at
several more teas and some of the
history and legends surrounding them
I'll try not to overwhelm you with all
the different choices you have out there
it really is that overwhelming but it's
a good overwhelming so that's for next
time the China history podcasts history
of teas series is brought to you by the
spirit of tea a book and traveling
exhibition by tea lover and photographer
Matthew London the spirit of tea is a
fresh new look into the ancient yet
vibrant world of Chinese tea culture
through Matthew stunning photographs
from an epic four year journey
throughout mainland China Taiwan Hong
Kong and Macau based on his philosophy
of the five elements of tea along with
masterpiece Chinese paintings and poetry
the spirit of tea takes you deep into
the heart of the birthplace of tea and
offers profound insight into the essence
and beauty of Chinese tea wisdom Matthew
London
is giving away five signed photographic
prints from the spirit of T each episode
head on over to
www.amazingpublicspeaking.com
I think I'm gonna have me a nice cup of
right party right now your humble
narrator is still enjoying that
altogether unpleasant jet-lagged feeling
only just having returned from his long
China trip thanks everyone for tuning in
one more episode to go and then back to
the usual routine with random topics
selected from 5,000 years of Chinese
history
this is Lazlo Montgomery signing off
from sunny and beautiful Southern
California here in the big orange I do
hope you'll think it over and consider
joining me next time for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast